So, hello everyone.
My name is Alex, and my talk today is going to
be Building Collective Intelligence to Reduce Hostility.
Several weeks ago, when I applied for this talk, the
topic wasn't reducing hostility, but rather reducing division.
I've since pivoted on that idea a little bit because
I've realized that it isn't division that we're actually
out to solve.
See, I grew up in the Southeastern United States
, and in recent years, I've been inspired to create
this project because I've seen how divided my friends and family
have become on lots of different topics.
But the division isn't exactly the problem.
See, it's our differences in cultures and backgrounds and experiences
that makes the world really interesting and leads to a lot of
innovation.
It's when the discussion around those differences leads to hostility
, broken or damaged relationships, or in worst case, destruction
of the world, do we start to have a lot of
problems.
Today, a lot of the conversation around those differences takes place
on social media.
But it's important to realize that social media was never designed
for this type of discourse.
It was made to connect you with your friends, share updates
, and build community.
Take this post for example.
Someone says, "The moon is made of cheese." Now
, because they posted this to any of the popular social media
platforms, and they all share this same fundamental structure where your
social media profile is meant to represent you and how you see
the world, there's the assumption that this person actually believes
the moon is made of cheese.
Now, because they've posted this, they've also opened
themselves up to personal attack from other users who believe differently than
they do, saying things like you're wrong, you're
crazy, or in worst case, leave the platform altogether and
divide because they don't want to be affiliated with the cheese
moon people.
Now, maybe someone else comes in and tries to remedi
ate the conversation, saying, "You're a little bit
off base here.
Here's a link to go and learn more, and maybe
it'll help change your perspective." But there's problems with
this also.
Where's this person going to be the next time somebody thinks
the moon is cheese?
And for our most polarized topics, it takes lots of different
sources to really get a consensus of the various issues.
And if we can't discuss confidently if the moon is cheese
or not, how are we possibly going to be able to
discuss more pressing issues in the world productively?
It's for all these reasons that we're building ViewS
ift.
ViewSift is this fundamentally new type of social environment.
It's an evidence-based social research platform as opposed to
the traditional belief-based social media.
And we're building it with features in mind to help with
discussing polarized content without so much hostility.
It starts when you create your first post on ViewSift
.
So if you think of traditional social media, there's a
text box.
And at the top of the text box is a prompt saying
something like, "What are you thinking?
What's up in your world?" or "What's your
post?" Different variations to say, "This is open discourse
for you to share your mind and opinions on the world."
But as we've learned, that's a problem because now
you've opened yourself up to attacks on your beliefs.
ViewSift works a little bit different.
There's still the same text box when you create your post
, but the prompt at the top is a little bit different
.
You see, it's as finished a sentence.
"I may or may not believe," and then you put
in your claim.
So for example, some of the posts that I always feel
comfortable creating is, "The moon is made of cheese."
"Aliens are real." "At proto isn't
decentralized." Or, "Relays are expensive to run."
And I've put a little tag on the word "rel
ays" to let us all know that we're talking about
"At proto relays." So I create the post,
"The moon is made of cheese." And you'll notice
on the ViewSift site, there's a few differences
to traditional social media.
At the top, there's a link that centralizes the
discourse around this claim, "The moon is made of cheese
." And there's one button where you can add support for
this claim.
And it's important to realize that on this page, you
only see supporting points to support the claim above.
Now, I don't have any evidence supporting the moon being
made of cheese.
And you might be thinking, obviously it isn't, so
we need to take account that perspective.
So that's where we've introduced the sifter.
When you click on the sifter, it goes to the
opposite perspective.
In this case, the moon is not made of cheese.
And on this page, you can see the supporting claims that
have come in.
And it's important to note that all the supporting points are
claims themselves, meaning that you can click on them and jump
to that claim, see all the supporting reasons, and then
click on the sifter to explore other viewpoints.
And this gives you the great ability to stay high level and
really explore different ideas and perspectives about the world without really having
to dive into all the nitty gritty complex research papers
.
But it's at this point that we're really building on
the at proto research, social research ecosystem.
And today, this is kind of where we're stopping with
view sift.
But I guess I'd say this is our checkpoint.
You can sift through different views and see the reasons that
people support those views to help you break out of echo chambers
and thought silos and explore ideas.
But pretty soon, we'll be integrating with other social research
apps in the app proto ecosystem, apps like margin and symbol
, to help you identify the various quotes from sources online that
support ideas and link them together.
And for the links themselves, you can share them with your
symbol social graph and add them to collections to share with the
other researchers.
Then, in the future, we can build on all of
these pieces to really build community-backed ways to know
when to trust information.
And for all of the great ideas that rise from this noise
that we're in, we can build features to help prioritize
.
If all of this sounds exciting, we're going to have
a table upstairs in the lounge a little bit later, so
we'll have a little bit of demos you can try out
and ask us questions there.
Thank you so much for @Science for having me to
talk with you today, and I appreciate you guys for listening
.
Thanks, Alex.
Any questions?
Thank you.
Yeah, thanks.
It sounds like a really interesting platform, and I think that
there's a lot of cases where this is a useful thing
to have.
I wanted to ask about what plans you have for moderation,
because as a platform, I feel like you have to also
make decisions on what is an acceptable viewpoint, because there's
people who give crackpot science along, say, the lines
of eugenics or trying to push racist things or trans
phobic things and stuff.
And I was wondering if you thought about moderation and how you
might decide, because I feel like you have to decide what
's an acceptable thing to discuss.
First, it's important to realize that with all of these
technologies, we're in the very ground stages of it.
So it's important that we introduce the community to each of
these steps to make sure that everything makes sense before we build
in other features.
Moderation is absolutely very important.
And by leveraging this app proto type of world, we're
going to focus on making this claim section of the app proto
ecosystem as robust as possible, because there are a lot of
nuanced details to think about that we need to do for moderation
.
But then we can leverage other tools to really build this community
based moderation atmosphere.
Yeah, wonderful idea and great presentation.
I'm curious how you think one of the big effects of
polarization, right, is a resistance to new information.
And even with new information, you'll have different interpretations of
the same kind of piece of evidence.
I'm curious how you all are thinking about attracting users and
how you imagine folks who are already polarized are going to choose
to engage with ideas with which they differ.
So one of the things that really hinders people from being
able to open up freely and share their ideas is when they
're in an atmosphere where they know the second that somebody has
a disagreement with them, that it's going to be this
escalation and they're going to start attacking each other over
their beliefs, all the things we talked about.
So the first step we think is just creating that space where
you don't just have to share the things that you believe
in, but just generally the things that you've heard are
true about the world.
And then we can have open discourse on that and absolutely working
with the community to develop ways to improve that type of atmosphere
.
But then it kind of gets this foundation where we can start
having more in-person collaboration experiences with people because they know
it's a safe space to share a brainstorm to move away
from this hostility environment and more just a general curiosity environment
.
So, yeah, one more question.
This is exciting.
I'm curious about the formulation of putting in a claim rather
than a question.
And I wonder also what it might be like to have the
ability to ask questions that are beyond true, true or false
or yes or no.
Yeah.
So this is the knowledge graph or discourse graph
, as you guys are calling it.
There's multiple layers to it.
And it's important to realize that at each one of those
layers, there's a lot of things to consider with like
duplicate information, moderation, and helping like the signal come from
the noise.
And so if you think of like, you know, most
things you could say, like, should we X and you
could say that as a question.
But then I could also say just we should X and just
put it out as a statement.
So there's what we're doing with this claim section is
focusing on the statements and getting those right.
And then once we know that the community is good with that
part of the social graph, then we can start building questions
into the mix and start to like have those questions linked to
all the other claims.
It's really kind of multiple levels that we're building out
, not that we're trying to exclude questions from the mix
entirely.
Thank you very much.
Thanks, Alex.
.